[Music]
so one of the best gaming phones on the
planet is going mainstream like look at
all the previous Rog phones Rog phone 1
Rog phone 2 Rog phone 3 skipped four
because four is bad luck RG phone 5 RG
phone 6 and RG Phone 7 now this one is
the Rog Phone 8 Pro this one is
noticeably more regular so Asus still
makes other regular phones the Zen phone
and RG still stands for Republic of
Gamers this is very much still a gaming
phone but the thing that makes gaming
phones so good at gaming also makes them
really good at media and just being all
around really good daily drivers so Asus
has finally said you know what what if
we just package our great gaming phone
for the m es and I think that's really
this is the first one where they've
really committed to that idea now don't
get me wrong they still pack in the
gamer stuff there's still a hidden
display on the back of the phone and all
kinds of crazy specs but the pivot is
real here so given the fact that it's
still a gaming phone we are not
surprised that it still turns up the
specs all the way to the bleeding edge
with this 6.78 in 165 Herz AMOLED
display up front that gets to a crazy
bright 2500 nits it's got a 3.3 gz
Snapdragon 8 gen 3 with up to 24 gigs of
lpddr 5x RAM and a terabyte of ufs 4.0
fast storage it smokes geekbench it just
crushes 3D mark it can play genin impact
at 60fps like this phone is ridiculously
fast also opening and moving through
apps and just using it like a normal
phone is crazy it's one of the snappiest
phones I've ever used taking photos is
extremely quick from the millisecond
your finger touches the shutter button
even this Optical fingerprint reader
underneath the glass is surprisingly
fast it's just overall the fastest like
the most reactive phone I've ever used
so all that is great and we know it can
handle games but if you're Asus how do
you now package this as a great daily
driver because let's be honest the
previous gaming phones were just so
gamery so okay first things first it's
got to be more one-h handable like yes
you still want a huge display for gaming
and Gamers will spend a lot of time with
the phone sideways in two hands but
regular phone stuff happens vertically
with one hand all the time so they've
shrunken the bezels all the way around
all the sides and it's pretty noticeable
at the top and the bottom which is now
looking on par with other fullcreen
flagships out there and that does also
mean it's the first time in an Rog phone
that they've ever had a hole punch
camera but it's also a pretty small hole
punch so it looks totally normal and
this also comes at the expense of a
little bit of that front-facing speaker
space the speakers are still quite loud
and full sounding stereo front-facing
speakers but yeah the fact is they are
slightly less insane than last year and
then they also went and made the phone
thinner so they flattened out the frame
on the sides again similar to some other
phones so the whole thing is slightly
more trim cutting it under 9 mm for the
first time and it's still honestly
pretty well balanced even with this
camera bump that we'll talk about in a
minute but of course thinner also means
you guessed it slightly smaller battery
again for the first time in an Rog phone
it goes from 6,000 mamp hours to 5500
milliamp hours to be honest in using
this phone I haven't really noticed the
difference because it's still such a
battery champ with all the optimizations
Asus has pulled with the software with
this display but they did technically
make the battery smaller so the result
of all that trimming and sculpting is a
phone that's it's definitely still big
but it's much closer to a normal size
phone is basically the same size as my
pixel 8 Pro that I've been dailying but
it still has room for the gamery media
friendly features like there's still a
second USBC port on the side so you can
keep charging while gaming in landscape
still got the remappable shoulder
triggers and the rare headphone jack and
side note I've been testing a couple
inar monitors lately and just enjoying
using them in all kinds of places and
this is one of the rare phones that I
can actually plug it in and use it with
and Asus always throws in a surprising
amount of audio adjustment features and
a bunch of different profiles and EQ
settings that you can play with and make
a big difference and then hey if you're
going to use this daily people are going
to want the confidence
of water resistance like real water
resistance previous gaming phones don't
really focus on that too much RG Phone 7
was ip54 and that's nice but this is the
first R phone that stepped up to full
ip68 water and dust resistance which is
sort of the gold standard of not just
getting rained on but like you can spill
a drink on your phone or drop it in the
toilet and actually be totally fine now
do we still think this looks like a
gaming phone honestly I think they've
done a good job of of it's it's a nice
balance like they've done a slow ramp of
toning it down a little bit over the
years and less RGB and jagged lines and
screens on the back and all that sort of
stuff now this one I think the camera
bump is the weirdest part but aside from
that it's pretty subtle like this one's
it's a satin black so it doesn't show
any fingerprints it's got a single
diagonal glossy strip which definitely
screams like or maybe Whispers gamer but
I don't mind it and then I could
probably do without all the text the
Republic of Gamers text or the good luck
have fun text next to the USBC Port but
honestly this is fine super toned down
but what if I told you there is still a
display on the back of this phone cuz
there is they couldn't help themselves
like you literally cannot tell when the
screen is off where it is but if you go
into the Armory crate and turn on anime
Vision I I don't know why it's called
that but the display then lights up it
comes to life it's this allh led do
Matrix display that can show all kind
kinds of things from logos to charging
status to incoming call notifications
and notification counters Etc even when
you're uh taking a picture if there's a
countdown timer it'll do the countdown
on the outside screen or even when
you're gaming it'll just tell the world
that you're playing a game it is
definitely certifiably gimmicky but I
like it anyway for a couple reasons one
it's it's still pretty minimal on the
back of the phone here but two it's
actually functional it's giving you real
useful information on the back of the
phone I would say even more than the
nothing phone it's customizable you can
go through and make special ones just
for whatever use case and then when the
screen is off you just can't even see it
can't even tell it's there and on top of
all of that they even made room for the
first ever wireless charging in an RG
phone so these gaming phones have always
had so much chaos going around on the
back of the phone with these screens and
lights that they just they never had
room for wireless charging and that was
totally fine because Gamers just weren't
interested but this time they've
actually made the space for it one thing
I'll say though the coil is a little
higher up here than normal it's above
that little display and so I think it's
a little higher than most other phones
cuz if I put the phone on a vertical
wireless charger like this it actually
doesn't line up and it doesn't charge
but I discovered that if I turn it
sideways it does charge so you may have
to play with that a little bit and you
know lots of people don't use wireless
charging and that's fine but just feels
like this is something you have to offer
to be considered one of the high-end
versatile flagships uh even if you never
use that there's still 65 wat wir
charging with the brick that is yes
included in the box now in previous
reviews I would literally say the camera
it's pretty bad but it's a gaming phone
that's not one of the reasons that
you're buying this phone and then so it
just be fine but in a phone that you
want to package and sell as a mainstream
phone that goes from an afterthought to
literally one of the most important
pieces of this phone so how did they do
well this is an allnew camera system for
the Rog phone it's a 50 megapixel
primary camera a 3X telephoto for the
first time and a 13 megapixel ultrawide
it's more Hardware than before but I
would say it's somehow still feels
behind the Zen phone 10 which is also
made by Asus like are are those branches
of the company even talking to each
other this primary camera sensor is an
IMX 890 it's the same camera sensor
that's in the OnePlus 11 and the nothing
phone 2 and some other phones in the6
700 range and it produces pictures that
look kind of like those phones too
they're decent sometimes in good light
but often a little too much motion blur
and a lot too much HDR seriously
sometimes with people as the subjects it
looks like they're just trying to blast
the exposure on faces and drag
everything else down it's just very
aggressive processing like it's running
algorithms made for a sensor from 5
years ago now there are upsides like the
super steady video it's now capable of
thanks to the hybrid 6axis gimbal just
like the Zen phone it means you can
shoot slightly better handheld in low
light but it's really smooth video and
the front-facing camera is wider angle
so you can fit more people on the frame
even if it is still kind of HDR and the
telephoto that's something new that the
Zen phone also doesn't have and that is
genuinely useful if you shoot a lot of
Zoom you know 3x isn't the most zoom in
the world but the stabilization on it is
so Rock Solid so you can keep punching
it with digital Zoom all that's to say
it's leveled up but it's clearly still
not the focus of this phone Focus but
it's it's not the strength of this phone
which might just be fine in another $700
phone but as you may have picked up from
my tone and from the rest of the specs
in this video this is not a $600 phone
this is a very flagship phone with a
very Flagship price this Rog phone
starts at $1,100
and the spec that I'm reviewing with the
24 gigs of RAM and the terabyte of
storage this R phone Pro is
$1,500 now I also want to point out that
you're going to start noticing AI
features with basically every phone that
comes out this year with the Snapdragon
AG gen3 like this is the one of the
first ones there's maybe one or two
other Snapdragon H gen 3 phones out but
Qualcomm has built in new AI
capabilities into that chip
and oh boy every manufacturer's got some
new AI stuff to play with in their phone
so for this gaming phone they've built
in some clever things like pattern
recognition inside of games to fast
forward through recognized scenes in
certain supported games or even
recognize what's on the screen and
prompt you to find a walkthr of the part
of the game that you're in now I found
the you know the smaller stuff like the
settings search more useful it's got
more semantic understanding it can
intelligently find the setting you're
looking for based on what you write so
even if if you type like two of one it
knows oh you're you're talking about the
twin apps feature that lets you have
multiple accounts open for one app at
the same time but in general that's just
going to be a theme of 2024 to look out
for AI capabilities of phones with this
chip just you can you can just trust me
on this one so the summary of the Rog
phone is look this is a very still a
very capable powerful really fast
Android phone like it always is and it's
just a little more tame looking like
they've traded some of their gamery Edge
for Mass Appeal and I think a lot of the
decisions were really smart like trading
some of the basic stuff like thinner
bezels and a little bit more of a trim
like overall form factor and one or two
millimeters of thickness for a slightly
smaller battery fine and I still think
you know getting the gamer stuff with
the display on the back but still having
wireless charging and ip68 water resist
that's great but the one thing that they
couldn't quite get over that hump is the
camera system it's good but it's not
over that hump and that just happens to
be one of the most important things
about a mainstream phone and so this
remains a really good gamer
phone thanks for watching catch you guys
in the next one
[Music]
peace